samples: cellular: MMSS: Support Wi-Fi (#11863)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/cellular/nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service/README.rst

See also the :ref:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_test_counter`.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_hardcoded_certs:

Provisioning with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES`
===========================================================================

The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` allows you to use hard-coded CA and device certificates stored in unprotected program memory for connecting to nRF Cloud.

.. note::

>    The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` Kconfig option is not secure, and should be used only for demonstration purposes! This setting stores your device's private key in unprotected program memory, making your device vulnerable to impersonation.

Author: My bad

The ID can be anything you want, as long as it is not prefixed with ``nrf-``.
For example, we will use ``my_wifi_dev`` as the device ID for the duration of these instructions.
You must consistently use this exact device ID in the remaining steps, otherwise provisioning will fail.

Next, generate and self-sign a device certificate for each device you wish to provision:

.. code-block:: console

   python3 create_device_credentials.py -ca self_ca_XXXXX_ca.pem -ca_key self_ca_XXXXX_prv.pem -c US -st StateOrProvince -l MyCity -o MyCompany -ou RD -cn my_wifi_dev -dv 2000 -f cred_

Where ``self_ca_XXXXX_ca.pem``, ``self_ca_XXXXX_prv.pem`` are replaced by the corresponding outputs from the previous step.
Make sure that the ``-cn`` argument is set to your chosen device ID.
The ``-f cred_`` argument ensures all outputs from ``create_device_credentials.py`` are prefixed with ``cred_``.
The ``-dv 2000`` specifies that the certificate should remain valid for 2000 days.
Rember to populate the ``-c``, ``-st``, ``-l``, ``-o``, and ``-ou`` arguments with your own values.

If this succeeds, you should now have an additional three files:

>   * ``cred_my_wifi_dev_crt.pem``
>   * ``cred_my_wifi_dev_pub.pem``
>   * ``cred_my_wifi_dev_prv.pem``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * :file:`cred_<device_id_uuid>_crt.pem`
  * :file:`cred_<device_id_uuid>_pub.pem`
  * :file:`cred_<device_id_uuid>_prv.pem`
```

These three files can only be used by a single device.

> The filenames automatically include your chosen device ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file names automatically include your chosen device ID.
```
NCS uses "file name" as two words.

> If an attacker obtains the private key (``cred_my_wifi_dev_prv.pem``), they will be able to impersonate your device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an attacker obtains the private key (``cred_<device_id_uuid>_prv.pem``), they will be able to impersonate your device.
```

> Since the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` does not protect this private key from extraction, it should not be used in production!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since using hard-coded certificates does not protect this private key from extraction, it should not be used in production!
```

> Next, create a file named ``my_wifi_dev_cred.csv`` and give it the following contents:

Reviewer 2: perhaps reference https://api.nrfcloud.com/v1#tag/IP-Devices/operation/ProvisionDevices since this explains the csv format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create a file named :file:`<device_id_uuid>_cred.csv` and give it the following contents:
```

> .. code-block:: csv

Reviewer: CSV is not a valid option for code-block, and it is breaking the doc build. You can just leave it empty.

   XXXX,,,,"YYYYYYYY"

Where XXXX is replaced by your chosen device ID, and YYYYYYYY is replaced by the exact contents of ``cred_my_wifi_dev_crt.pem``.

For example:

.. code-block:: csv

   my_wifi_dev,,,,"-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
   sCC8AtbNQhzbp4y01FEzXaf5Fko3Qdq0o5LbuNpVA7S6AKAkjt17QzKJAiGWHakh
   RnwzoA2dF4wR0rMP5vR6dqBblaGAA5hN7GE2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZ9dnO6446dg9gGds
   eeadE1HdVnUj8nb+7CGm39vJ4fuNk9vogH0nMdxjCnXAinoOMRx8EklQsR747+Gz
   sxcdVYuNEb/E2vWBHTDNZGJ6tZC1JC9d6/RC3Vb1JC4tWnK9mk/Jw984ZuYugpMc
   1t9umoGFYCz0nMdxjCnXAbnoOMC5A0RxcWPzxfC5A0RH+j+mwoMxwhgfFY4EhVxp
   oCC8labNQhzRC3Vc1JC4tWnK9mpVA7k/o5LbuNpVA7S6AKAkjt17QzKJAiGWHakh
   RXwcoAndF4wPzxfC5A0RHponmwBHTDoM7GE2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZ9dnO6446dg9gGds
   eefdE1HcVnULbuNpVA7S6AKAkjxjCnt1gH0nMdxjCnXAinoOMRx8EklQsR747+Fz
   srm/VYaNEb/E2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZc1JC9d6/RC3Vc1JC4tWnK9mk/Jr984ZuYugpMc
   nt9uZTGFYCzZD0FFAA5NAC4i1PARStFycWPzxfC5A0RqodhswoMxwhgfFY4EhVx=
   -----END CERTIFICATE-----
   "

Do not attempt to use this example verbatim, it has been filled with dummy data.

> Next, navigate to the `Provision Devices <nRF Cloud Portal Provision Devices_>`_ page of the nRF Cloud portal, drag and drop ``my_wifi_dev_cred.csv``, and press ``Upload and Provision``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, navigate to the `Provision Devices <nRF Cloud Portal Provision Devices_>`_ page of the nRF Cloud portal, add the :file:`my_wifi_dev_cred.csv` CSV file, and press ``Upload and Provision``.
```
Clicking and using the file selection upload window is an option.

You should see a message stating that the file was uploaded successfully, and a device with your chosen device ID should appear in the `Devices <nRF Cloud Portal Devices_>`_ page.

> Next, download `Amazon Root CA 1`_ and save it as ``AmazonRootCA1.pem``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, download `Amazon Root CA 1`_ and save it as :file:`AmazonRootCA1.pem`.
```

See `CA certificates for server authentication in AWS IoT Core`_ for more details.
Do not confuse this CA cert with your self-managed CA cert.

> Next, wrap ``cred_my_wifi_dev_crt.pem``, ``cred_my_wifi_dev_prv.pem``, and ``AmazonRootCA1.pem`` in quotes, and save them as ``client-cert.pem``, ``private-key.pem`` and ``ca-cert.pem`` respectively.

Reviewer 2: maybe lead in with something like "in order to use these files in your firmware application, they must be formatted/named blah blah..."

Reviewer: As someone not familiar with certificates, I have no idea how to parse "wrap <file> in quotes". Does it refer to the contents? This also seems like two different steps. One for the quotation marks, one for the renames.

Author: > Does it refer to the contents? 

Yes, indeed, I will adjust the sentence to specify that

> This also seems like two different steps. One for the quotation marks, one for the renames.

It is a single step, since the command lines process the text in memory and save the result to a new file name. But I can phrase it as `save the result` rather than `rename`

. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Bash

      .. code-block:: console

        awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' cred_my_wifi_dev_crt.pem > client-cert.pem
        awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' cred_my_wifi_dev_prv.pem > private-key.pem
        awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' AmazonrootCA1.pem > ca-cert.pem

   .. group-tab:: PowerShell

      .. code-block:: console
         gc .\cred_my_wifi_dev_crt.pem | %{"""$_\n"""} | out-file -encoding utf8 client-cert.pem
         gc .\cred_my_wifi_dev_prv.pem | %{"""$_\n"""} | out-file -encoding utf8 private-key.pem
         gc .\AmazonrootCA1.pem | %{"""$_\n"""} | out-file -encoding utf8 ca-cert.pem

> If this succeeds, you should now have the following three files:

Reviewer: Is this likely to fail?

Author: Only if the user makes a mistake. I include phrases like this just to give the user a way of checking their own work

I can rephrase as just `you should now have the following three files`

>   * ``client-cert.pem``
>   * ``private-key.pem``
>   * ``ca-cert.pem``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * :file:`client-cert.pem`
  * :file:`private-key.pem`
  * :file:`ca-cert.pem`
```

> And their contents should look something like this (possibly all on one line):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contents of each file should be similar to following, possibly all on one line:
```

.. code-block:: C

   "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n"
   "sCC8AtbNQhzbp4y01FEzXaf5Fko3Qdq0o5LbuNpVA7S6AKAkjt17QzKJAiGWHakh\n"
   "RnwzoA2dF4wR0rMP5vR6dqBblaGAA5hN7GE2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZ9dnO6446dg9gGds\n"
   "eeadE1HdVnUj8nb+7CGm39vJ4fuNk9vogH0nMdxjCnXAinoOMRx8EklQsR747+Gz\n"
   "sxcdVYuNEb/E2vWBHTDNZGJ6tZC1JC9d6/RC3Vb1JC4tWnK9mk/Jw984ZuYugpMc\n"
   "1t9umoGFYCz0nMdxjCnXAbnoOMC5A0RxcWPzxfC5A0RH+j+mwoMxwhgfFY4EhVxp\n"
   "oCC8labNQhzRC3Vc1JC4tWnK9mpVA7k/o5LbuNpVA7S6AKAkjt17QzKJAiGWHakh\n"
   "RXwcoAndF4wPzxfC5A0RHponmwBHTDoM7GE2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZ9dnO6446dg9gGds\n"
   "eefdE1HcVnULbuNpVA7S6AKAkjxjCnt1gH0nMdxjCnXAinoOMRx8EklQsR747+Fz\n"
   "srm/VYaNEb/E2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZc1JC9d6/RC3Vc1JC4tWnK9mk/Jr984ZuYugpMc\n"
   "nt9uZTGFYCzZD0FFAA5NAC4i1PARStFycWPzxfC5A0RqodhswoMxwhgfFY4EhVx=\n"
   "-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n"

Do not attempt to use this example verbatim, it has been filled with dummy data.

> Finally, create a certs folder directly in the `nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service` folder (be sure not to place it in the `nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service/src` folder by accident), and copy ``client-cert.pem``, ``private-key.pem`` and ``ca-cert.pem`` into it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, create a certs folder directly in the :file:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service` folder and copy :file:`client-cert.pem`, :file:`private-key.pem` and :file:`ca-cert.pem` into it.
Be sure to not place the new folder in the :file:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service/src` folder by accident.
```

See also the :ref:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_test_counter`.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_hardcoded_certs:

Provisioning with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES`
===========================================================================

The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` allows you to use hard-coded CA and device certificates stored in unprotected program memory for connecting to nRF Cloud.

.. note::
   The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` Kconfig option is not secure, and should be used only for demonstration purposes! This setting stores your device's private key in unprotected program memory, making your device vulnerable to impersonation.

If you are certain you understand the inherent security risks, you can provision your device with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` as follows:

First, download and install the `nRF Cloud Utilities <nRF Cloud Utilities documentation_>`_ repo.

> Next, use the nRF Cloud Utilities ``create_ca_cert.py`` script to generate a self-managed CA certificate:

Author: Okay -- I've significantly reduced the detail regarding the descriptions of `create_device_credentials.py` and `create_ca_cert.py` -- I still want to include basic console command examples, though

See also the :ref:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_test_counter`.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_hardcoded_certs:

Provisioning with hard-coded CA and device certificates
=======================================================

> The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` allows you to use hard-coded CA and device certificates stored in unprotected program memory for connecting to nRF Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` Kconfig option allows you to use hard-coded CA and device certificates stored in unprotected program memory for connecting to nRF Cloud.
```

> The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` allows you to use hard-coded CA and device certificates stored in unprotected program memory for connecting to nRF Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` Kconfig option allows you to use hard-coded CA and device certificates stored in unprotected program memory for connecting to nRF Cloud.
```

.. important::
   The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` Kconfig option is not secure, and should be used only for demonstration purposes!

>    This setting stores your device's private key in unprotected program memory, making your device vulnerable to impersonation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Because this setting stores your device's private key in unprotected program memory, using it makes your device vulnerable to impersonation.
```

If you are certain you understand the inherent security risks, you can provision your device with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` as follows:

> First, download and install the `nRF Cloud Utilities <nRF Cloud Utilities documentation_>`_ repo.
> 
> Next, use the nRF Cloud Utilities :file:`create_ca_cert.py` Python script to generate a self-managed CA certificate:
> 
> .. code-block:: console
> 
>    python3 create_ca_cert.py -c US -f self_ca_
> 
> Remember to set ``-c`` to your two-letter country code.
> See `Create CA Cert <nRF Cloud Utilities Create CA Cert_>`_ for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, generate a self-managed CA certificate:

1. Download and install the `nRF Cloud Utilities <nRF Cloud Utilities documentation_>`_ repo.
#. Use the nRF Cloud Utilities :file:`create_ca_cert.py` Python script to generate the certificate:

   .. code-block:: console

      python3 create_ca_cert.py -c US -f self_ca_

   Remember to set ``-c`` to your two-letter country code.
   See the `Create CA Cert <nRF Cloud Utilities Create CA Cert_>`_ section in the nRF Cloud Utilities documentation for more details.
```

You should now have three files:

  * :file:`self_ca_<certificate_serial>_ca.pem`
  * :file:`self_ca_<certificate_serial>_prv.pem`
  * :file:`self_ca_<certificate_serial>_pub.pem`

Where ``<certificate_serial>`` is your certificate's serial number in hex.
You will use these files to sign device certificates.

You only need to generate these three files once.
They can be used to sign as many device certificates as you need.

> Next create a (globally unique) `device ID <nRF Cloud Device ID_>`_ for each device you wish to provision.
> The ID can be anything you want, as long as it is not prefixed with ``nrf-`` and is globally unique.
> Each device should have its own device ID, and you must use this device ID exactly in all of the remaining steps for that device, otherwise provisioning will fail.
> 
> Next, use the :file:`create_device_credentials.py` Python script to generate a self-signed certificate for each device you wish to provision:
> 
> .. code-block:: console
> 
>    python3 create_device_credentials.py -ca "self_ca_<certificate_serial>_ca.pem" -ca_key "self_ca_<certificate_serial>_prv.pem" -c US -cn "<device_uuid>" -f cred_
> 
> Where ``<device_uuid>`` is the device ID you created, and :file:`self_ca_<certificate_serial>_ca.pem`, and :file:`self_ca_<certificate_serial>_prv.pem` are the corresponding file names from the previous step.
> Remember to set ``-c`` to your two-letter country code.
> See `Create Device Credentials <nRF Cloud Utilities Create Device Credentials_>`_ for more details.
> 
> If this succeeds, you should now have an additional three files:
> 
>   * :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_crt.pem`
>   * :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_pub.pem`
>   * :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_prv.pem`
> 
> These three files can only be used by a single device.
> 
> .. important::
> 
>    If an attacker obtains the private key contained in :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_prv.pem`, they will be able to impersonate your device.
>    Since using hard-coded certificates does not protect this private key from extraction, this option should not be used in production!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, complete the following steps for each device you wish to provision:

1. Create a globally unique `device ID <nRF Cloud Device ID_>`_ for the device.
   The ID can be anything you want, as long as it is not prefixed with ``nrf-`` and is globally unique.

   Each device should have its own device ID, and you must use this device ID exactly in all of the remaining steps for that device, otherwise provisioning will fail.

#. Use the :file:`create_device_credentials.py` Python script to generate a self-signed certificate for the device:

   .. code-block:: console

      python3 create_device_credentials.py -ca "self_ca_<certificate_serial>_ca.pem" -ca_key "self_ca_<certificate_serial>_prv.pem" -c US -cn "<device_uuid>" -f cred_

   Where ``<device_uuid>`` is the device ID you created, and :file:`self_ca_<certificate_serial>_ca.pem`, and :file:`self_ca_<certificate_serial>_prv.pem` are the corresponding file names from the previous step.
   Remember to set ``-c`` to your two-letter country code.
   See the `Create Device Credentials <nRF Cloud Utilities Create Device Credentials_>`_ section in the nRF Cloud Utilities documentation for more details.

   You should now have an additional three files:

   * :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_crt.pem`
   * :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_pub.pem`
   * :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_prv.pem`

   These three files can only be used by a single device.

   .. important::
      If an attacker obtains the private key contained in :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_prv.pem`, they will be able to impersonate your device.
      Since using hard-coded certificates does not protect this private key from extraction, this option should not be used in production!
```

> Next, create a CSV file named :file:`<device_uuid>_cred.csv` and give it the following contents:
> 
> .. code-block:: none
> 
>    <device_uuid>,,,,"<device_cert>"
> 
> Where ``<device_uuid>`` is replaced by the device ID you created, and ``<device_cert>`` is replaced by the exact contents of :file:`<device_uuid>_crt.pem`.
> 
> For example, if the device ID you created were ``698d4c11-0ccc-4f04-89cd-6882724e3f6f``:
> 
> .. code-block:: none
> 
>    698d4c11-0ccc-4f04-89cd-6882724e3f6f,,,,"-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
>    sCC8AtbNQhzbp4y01FEzXaf5Fko3Qdq0o5LbuNpVA7S6AKAkjt17QzKJAiGWHakh
>    RnwzoA2dF4wR0rMP5vR6dqBblaGAA5hN7GE2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZ9dnO6446dg9gGds
>    eeadE1HdVnUj8nb+7CGm39vJ4fuNk9vogH0nMdxjCnXAinoOMRx8EklQsR747+Gz
>    sxcdVYuNEb/E2vWBHTDNZGJ6tZC1JC9d6/RC3Vb1JC4tWnK9mk/Jw984ZuYugpMc
>    1t9umoGFYCz0nMdxjCnXAbnoOMC5A0RxcWPzxfC5A0RH+j+mwoMxwhgfFY4EhVxp
>    oCC8labNQhzRC3Vc1JC4tWnK9mpVA7k/o5LbuNpVA7S6AKAkjt17QzKJAiGWHakh
>    RXwcoAndF4wPzxfC5A0RHponmwBHTDoM7GE2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZ9dnO6446dg9gGds
>    eefdE1HcVnULbuNpVA7S6AKAkjxjCnt1gH0nMdxjCnXAinoOMRx8EklQsR747+Fz
>    srm/VYaNEb/E2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZc1JC9d6/RC3Vc1JC4tWnK9mk/Jr984ZuYugpMc
>    nt9uZTGFYCzZD0FFAA5NAC4i1PARStFycWPzxfC5A0RqodhswoMxwhgfFY4EhVx=
>    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
>    "
> 
> Do not attempt to use this example verbatim, it has been filled with dummy data.
> See `nRF Cloud REST API ProvisionDevices`_ for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Create a CSV file named :file:`<device_uuid>_cred.csv` and give it the following contents:

   .. code-block:: none

      <device_uuid>,,,,"<device_cert>"

   Where ``<device_uuid>`` is replaced by the device ID you created, and ``<device_cert>`` is replaced by the exact contents of :file:`<device_uuid>_crt.pem`.

   For example, if the device ID you created is ``698d4c11-0ccc-4f04-89cd-6882724e3f6f``:

   .. code-block:: none

      698d4c11-0ccc-4f04-89cd-6882724e3f6f,,,,"-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      sCC8AtbNQhzbp4y01FEzXaf5Fko3Qdq0o5LbuNpVA7S6AKAkjt17QzKJAiGWHakh
      RnwzoA2dF4wR0rMP5vR6dqBblaGAA5hN7GE2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZ9dnO6446dg9gGds
      eeadE1HdVnUj8nb+7CGm39vJ4fuNk9vogH0nMdxjCnXAinoOMRx8EklQsR747+Gz
      sxcdVYuNEb/E2vWBHTDNZGJ6tZC1JC9d6/RC3Vb1JC4tWnK9mk/Jw984ZuYugpMc
      1t9umoGFYCz0nMdxjCnXAbnoOMC5A0RxcWPzxfC5A0RH+j+mwoMxwhgfFY4EhVxp
      oCC8labNQhzRC3Vc1JC4tWnK9mpVA7k/o5LbuNpVA7S6AKAkjt17QzKJAiGWHakh
      RXwcoAndF4wPzxfC5A0RHponmwBHTDoM7GE2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZ9dnO6446dg9gGds
      eefdE1HcVnULbuNpVA7S6AKAkjxjCnt1gH0nMdxjCnXAinoOMRx8EklQsR747+Fz
      srm/VYaNEb/E2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZc1JC9d6/RC3Vc1JC4tWnK9mk/Jr984ZuYugpMc
      nt9uZTGFYCzZD0FFAA5NAC4i1PARStFycWPzxfC5A0RqodhswoMxwhgfFY4EhVx=
      -----END CERTIFICATE-----
      "

   Do not attempt to use this example directly, it has been filled with dummy data.
   See the  `ProvisionDevices <nRF Cloud REST API ProvisionDevices_>`_ endpoint in the nRF Cloud REST API for more details.
```

> Next, navigate to the `Provision Devices <nRF Cloud Portal Provision Devices_>`_ page of the nRF Cloud portal and upload the :file:`<device_uuid>_cred.csv` file you created.
> You should see a message stating that the file was uploaded successfully, and a device with the device ID you created should appear in the `Devices <nRF Cloud Portal Devices_>`_ page.
> 
> Next, download `Amazon Root CA 1`_ and save it as :file:`AmazonRootCA1.pem`.
> See `CA certificates for server authentication in AWS IoT Core`_ for more details.
> Do not confuse this CA cert with your self-managed CA cert.
> 
> Your device needs the :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_crt.pem`, :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_prv.pem`, and :file:`AmazonRootCA1.pem` files in order to connect to nRF Cloud.
> To be usable by your device, these files first need to be reformatted as C strings, given specific names (:file:`client-cert.pem`, :file:`private-key.pem` and :file:`ca-cert.pem` respectively), and moved to a specific location.
> 
> You can perform the reformatting and renaming as follows:
> 
> . tabs::
> 
>    .. group-tab:: Bash
> 
>       .. code-block:: console
> 
>         awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' "cred_<device_uuid>_crt.pem" > client-cert.pem
>         awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' "cred_<device_uuid>_prv.pem" > private-key.pem
>         awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' AmazonrootCA1.pem > ca-cert.pem
> 
>    Where ``<device_uuid>`` is replaced with the device ID you created.
> 
>    .. group-tab:: PowerShell
> 
>       .. code-block:: console
>          gc ".\cred_<device_uuid>_crt.pem" | %{"""$_\n"""} | out-file -encoding utf8 client-cert.pem
>          gc ".\cred_<device_uuid>_prv.pem" | %{"""$_\n"""} | out-file -encoding utf8 private-key.pem
>          gc .\AmazonrootCA1.pem | %{"""$_\n"""} | out-file -encoding utf8 ca-cert.pem
> 
>    Where ``<device_uuid>`` is replaced with the device ID you created.
> 
> You should now have the following three files:
> 
>   * :file:`client-cert.pem`
>   * :file:`private-key.pem`
>   * :file:`ca-cert.pem`
> 
> And tthe contents of each file should be similar to the following:
> 
> .. code-block:: C
> 
>    "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n"
>    "sCC8AtbNQhzbp4y01FEzXaf5Fko3Qdq0o5LbuNpVA7S6AKAkjt17QzKJAiGWHakh\n"
>    "RnwzoA2dF4wR0rMP5vR6dqBblaGAA5hN7GE2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZ9dnO6446dg9gGds\n"
>    "eeadE1HdVnUj8nb+7CGm39vJ4fuNk9vogH0nMdxjCnXAinoOMRx8EklQsR747+Gz\n"
>    "sxcdVYuNEb/E2vWBHTDNZGJ6tZC1JC9d6/RC3Vb1JC4tWnK9mk/Jw984ZuYugpMc\n"
>    "1t9umoGFYCz0nMdxjCnXAbnoOMC5A0RxcWPzxfC5A0RH+j+mwoMxwhgfFY4EhVxp\n"
>    "oCC8labNQhzRC3Vc1JC4tWnK9mpVA7k/o5LbuNpVA7S6AKAkjt17QzKJAiGWHakh\n"
>    "RXwcoAndF4wPzxfC5A0RHponmwBHTDoM7GE2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZ9dnO6446dg9gGds\n"
>    "eefdE1HcVnULbuNpVA7S6AKAkjxjCnt1gH0nMdxjCnXAinoOMRx8EklQsR747+Fz\n"
>    "srm/VYaNEb/E2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZc1JC9d6/RC3Vc1JC4tWnK9mk/Jr984ZuYugpMc\n"
>    "nt9uZTGFYCzZD0FFAA5NAC4i1PARStFycWPzxfC5A0RqodhswoMxwhgfFY4EhVx=\n"
>    "-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n"
> 
> Do not attempt to use this example verbatim, it has been filled with dummy data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Navigate to the `Provision Devices <nRF Cloud Portal Provision Devices_>`_ page of the nRF Cloud portal and upload the :file:`<device_uuid>_cred.csv` file you created.

   You will see a message stating that the file was uploaded successfully, and a device with the device ID you created will appear in the `Devices <nRF Cloud Portal Devices_>`_ page.

#. Download `Amazon Root CA 1`_ and save it as :file:`AmazonRootCA1.pem`.

   See `CA certificates for server authentication in AWS IoT Core`_ for more details.
   Do not confuse this CA cert with your self-managed CA cert.

#. Prepare the :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_crt.pem`, :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_prv.pem`, and :file:`AmazonRootCA1.pem` files to be used by the device.
   Your device needs these files in order to connect to nRF Cloud.
   
   To be usable by your device, these files first need to be reformatted as C strings, given specific names (:file:`client-cert.pem`, :file:`private-key.pem` and :file:`ca-cert.pem` respectively).

   You can perform the reformatting and renaming as follows:

   .. tabs::

      .. group-tab:: Bash

         .. code-block:: console

            awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' "cred_<device_uuid>_crt.pem" > client-cert.pem
            awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' "cred_<device_uuid>_prv.pem" > private-key.pem
            awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' AmazonrootCA1.pem > ca-cert.pem

         Where ``<device_uuid>`` is replaced with the device ID you created.

      .. group-tab:: PowerShell

         .. code-block:: console

            gc ".\cred_<device_uuid>_crt.pem" | %{"""$_\n"""} | out-file -encoding utf8 client-cert.pem
            gc ".\cred_<device_uuid>_prv.pem" | %{"""$_\n"""} | out-file -encoding utf8 private-key.pem
            gc .\AmazonrootCA1.pem | %{"""$_\n"""} | out-file -encoding utf8 ca-cert.pem

         Where ``<device_uuid>`` is replaced with the device ID you created.

   You should now have the following three files:

   * :file:`client-cert.pem`
   * :file:`private-key.pem`
   * :file:`ca-cert.pem`

   And the contents of each file should be similar to the following:

   .. code-block:: C

      "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n"
      "sCC8AtbNQhzbp4y01FEzXaf5Fko3Qdq0o5LbuNpVA7S6AKAkjt17QzKJAiGWHakh\n"
      "RnwzoA2dF4wR0rMP5vR6dqBblaGAA5hN7GE2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZ9dnO6446dg9gGds\n"
      "eeadE1HdVnUj8nb+7CGm39vJ4fuNk9vogH0nMdxjCnXAinoOMRx8EklQsR747+Gz\n"
      "sxcdVYuNEb/E2vWBHTDNZGJ6tZC1JC9d6/RC3Vb1JC4tWnK9mk/Jw984ZuYugpMc\n"
      "1t9umoGFYCz0nMdxjCnXAbnoOMC5A0RxcWPzxfC5A0RH+j+mwoMxwhgfFY4EhVxp\n"
      "oCC8labNQhzRC3Vc1JC4tWnK9mpVA7k/o5LbuNpVA7S6AKAkjt17QzKJAiGWHakh\n"
      "RXwcoAndF4wPzxfC5A0RHponmwBHTDoM7GE2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZ9dnO6446dg9gGds\n"
      "eefdE1HcVnULbuNpVA7S6AKAkjxjCnt1gH0nMdxjCnXAinoOMRx8EklQsR747+Fz\n"
      "srm/VYaNEb/E2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZc1JC9d6/RC3Vc1JC4tWnK9mk/Jr984ZuYugpMc\n"
      "nt9uZTGFYCzZD0FFAA5NAC4i1PARStFycWPzxfC5A0RqodhswoMxwhgfFY4EhVx=\n"
      "-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n"

   Do not attempt to use this example directly, it has been filled with dummy data.
```

> Finally, create a certs folder directly in the :file:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service` folder, and copy :file:`client-cert.pem`, :file:`private-key.pem` and :file:`ca-cert.pem` into it.
> Be sure not to place the new folder in the :file:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service/src` folder by accident.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Create a :file:`certs` folder directly in the :file:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service` folder, and copy :file:`client-cert.pem`, :file:`private-key.pem` and :file:`ca-cert.pem` into it.
   Be sure not to place the new folder in the :file:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service/src` folder by accident.
```

   Do not attempt to use this example directly, it has been filled with dummy data.
   See `nRF Cloud REST API ProvisionDevices`_ for more details.

#. Navigate to the `Provision Devices <nRF Cloud Portal Provision Devices_>`_ page of the nRF Cloud portal and upload the :file:`<device_uuid>_cred.csv` file you created.

   You should see a message stating that the file was uploaded successfully, and a device with the device ID you created should appear in the `Devices <nRF Cloud Portal Devices_>`_ page.

#. Download `Amazon Root CA 1`_ and save it as :file:`AmazonRootCA1.pem`.

   See `CA certificates for server authentication in AWS IoT Core`_ for more details.
   Do not confuse this CA cert with your self-managed CA cert.

#. Prepare the :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_crt.pem`, :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_prv.pem`, and :file:`AmazonRootCA1.pem` files for use by the device.

   Your device needs these files in order to connect to nRF Cloud.
   To be usable by your device, they need to be reformatted as C strings and given specific names (:file:`client-cert.pem`, :file:`private-key.pem` and :file:`ca-cert.pem` respectively).

   You can perform the reformatting and renaming as follows:

>    . tabs::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. tabs::
```

      .. group-tab:: Bash

         .. code-block:: console

           awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' "cred_<device_uuid>_crt.pem" > client-cert.pem
           awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' "cred_<device_uuid>_prv.pem" > private-key.pem
           awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' AmazonrootCA1.pem > ca-cert.pem

>       Where ``<device_uuid>`` is replaced with the device ID you created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         Where ``<device_uuid>`` is replaced with the device ID you created.
```

      "eeadE1HdVnUj8nb+7CGm39vJ4fuNk9vogH0nMdxjCnXAinoOMRx8EklQsR747+Gz\n"
      "sxcdVYuNEb/E2vWBHTDNZGJ6tZC1JC9d6/RC3Vb1JC4tWnK9mk/Jw984ZuYugpMc\n"
      "1t9umoGFYCz0nMdxjCnXAbnoOMC5A0RxcWPzxfC5A0RH+j+mwoMxwhgfFY4EhVxp\n"
      "oCC8labNQhzRC3Vc1JC4tWnK9mpVA7k/o5LbuNpVA7S6AKAkjt17QzKJAiGWHakh\n"
      "RXwcoAndF4wPzxfC5A0RHponmwBHTDoM7GE2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZ9dnO6446dg9gGds\n"
      "eefdE1HcVnULbuNpVA7S6AKAkjxjCnt1gH0nMdxjCnXAinoOMRx8EklQsR747+Fz\n"
      "srm/VYaNEb/E2vPBHTDNZGJ6tZc1JC9d6/RC3Vc1JC4tWnK9mk/Jr984ZuYugpMc\n"
      "nt9uZTGFYCzZD0FFAA5NAC4i1PARStFycWPzxfC5A0RqodhswoMxwhgfFY4EhVx=\n"
      "-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n"

   Do not attempt to use this example directly, it has been filled with dummy data.

#. Create a :file:`certs` folder directly in the :file:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service` folder, and copy :file:`client-cert.pem`, :file:`private-key.pem` and :file:`ca-cert.pem` into it.

   Be sure not to place the new folder in the :file:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service/src` folder by accident.

   Now these certs are automatically used if the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` Kconfig option is enabled.

> #. Build the sample with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` Kconfig option enabled and the device ID you created configured
> 
>    For provisioning to succeed, you must build the sample for each device, configuring each build with the corresponding device ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Build the sample with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` Kconfig option enabled and the device ID you created configured.
   This is required for provisioning to succeed.
```
The steps are already for each device, so no need to reiterate that, and the second sentence was mostly restating the first without that bit.

#. Download `Amazon Root CA 1`_ and save it as :file:`AmazonRootCA1.pem`.

   See `CA certificates for server authentication in AWS IoT Core`_ for more details.
   Do not confuse this CA cert with your self-managed CA cert.

#. Prepare the :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_crt.pem`, :file:`cred_<device_uuid>_prv.pem`, and :file:`AmazonRootCA1.pem` files for use by the device.

   Your device needs these files in order to connect to nRF Cloud.
   To be usable by your device, they need to be reformatted as C strings and given specific names (:file:`client-cert.pem`, :file:`private-key.pem` and :file:`ca-cert.pem` respectively).

   You can perform the reformatting and renaming as follows:

   .. tabs::

      .. group-tab:: Bash

         .. code-block:: console

           awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' "cred_<device_uuid>_crt.pem" > client-cert.pem
           awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' "cred_<device_uuid>_prv.pem" > private-key.pem
           awk 'NF { print "\""$0"\\n\""}' AmazonrootCA1.pem > ca-cert.pem

         Where ``<device_uuid>`` is replaced with the device ID you created.

      .. group-tab:: PowerShell

>          .. code-block:: console
>             gc ".\cred_<device_uuid>_crt.pem" | %{"""$_\n"""} | out-file -encoding utf8 client-cert.pem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         .. code-block:: console

            gc ".\cred_<device_uuid>_crt.pem" | %{"""$_\n"""} | out-file -encoding utf8 client-cert.pem
```
Breaks doc build.

See also :ref:`the paragraphs on the Wi-Fi location tracking method <nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_wifi_location_tracking>`.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_building_wifi_conn:

> Building with experimental Wi-Fi connectivity support (for nRF5340 DK / nRF7002 EK) (demonstration only)
> ========================================================================================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building with experimental Wi-Fi connectivity support for nRF5340 DK with nRF7002 EK
====================================================================================
```

> This sample experimentally supports connecting to nRF Cloud using Wi-Fi instead of using LTE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample :ref:`experimentally <software_maturity>` supports connecting to nRF Cloud using Wi-Fi instead of using LTE.
```

> Presently, an overlay for this is only provided for the nRF5340 DK with nRF7002 EK shield attached is supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An overlay for this is only provided for the nRF5340 DK with the nRF7002 EK shield attached.
```

It is possible to use Wi-Fi with other hardware combinations (such as the nRF7002 DK), but you must adjust heap and stack usage accordingly.

> See :file:`src/prj.conf` and :file:`overlay_nrf7002ek_wifi_no_lte.conf` for additional details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the :file:`src/prj.conf` configuration file and the :file:`overlay_nrf7002ek_wifi_no_lte.conf` overlay for additional details.
```

> Connecting to nRF Cloud using Wi-Fi is currently only possible with using the experimental (and insecure) Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connecting to nRF Cloud using Wi-Fi is currently only possible using the experimental and insecure Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES`.
```

See :ref:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_hardcoded_certs` for details on setting it up.

> Once it is set up, you can configure your build to use Wi-Fi connectivity (on nRF5340 DK with nRF7002 EK shield) by using the ``--board nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` target and the ``-DSHIELD=nrf7002ek`` and ``-DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay_nrf7002ek_wifi_no_lte.conf`` options (in addition to the options required by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES`).

Reviewer 2: why not just add the required configs to the overlay?
can `overlay_nrf7002ek_wifi_no_lte.conf` be used without these added configs?

```
CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES=y 
CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_COMPILE_TIME=y 
CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID=""
```

there is a build assert if client ID is empty.

Author: Mainly to discourage the user from viewing this as a permanent solution, I want setting up hardcoded certs to remain a manual step that the user must perform

Reviewer 2: I understand, but currently, can overlay_nrf7002ek_wifi_no_lte.conf be used (functionally) without these added configs?

if it can't, then you are just making it more difficult for the user.

if it can, then yes, leave as is.

Author: > I understand, but currently, can overlay_nrf7002ek_wifi_no_lte.conf be used (functionally) without these added configs?

Essentially no. If an alternative to `CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` existed, then yes, these overlays could be used with that alternative instead. But otherwise, no.

> if it can't, then you are just making it more difficult for the user.

Yeah, that is the intent -- Since `CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` is for testing purposes only, I sincerely do not want to have it automatically enabled inside any overlays. I want its use to be a conscious decision by the user.

> Once it is set up, you can configure your build to use Wi-Fi connectivity (on nRF5340 DK with nRF7002 EK shield) by using the ``--board nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` target and the ``-DSHIELD=nrf7002ek`` and ``-DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay_nrf7002ek_wifi_no_lte.conf`` options (in addition to the options required by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once it is set up, you can configure your build to use Wi-Fi connectivity on the nRF5340 DK with the nRF7002 EK shield by using the ``--board nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` target and the ``-DSHIELD=nrf7002ek`` and ``-DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay_nrf7002ek_wifi_no_lte.conf`` options.
These options must be used in addition to the options required by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` Kconfig option.
```

See also :ref:`the paragraphs on the Wi-Fi location tracking method <nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_wifi_location_tracking>`.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_building_wifi_conn:

Building with experimental support for Wi-Fi connectivity for nRF5340 DK with nRF7002 EK
========================================================================================

This sample :ref:`experimentally <software_maturity>` supports connecting to nRF Cloud using Wi-Fi instead of using LTE.

An overlay for this is only provided for the nRF5340 DK with the nRF7002 EK shield attached.
It is possible to use Wi-Fi with other hardware combinations (such as the nRF7002 DK), but you must adjust heap and stack usage accordingly.

> See the :file:`src/prj.conf` configuration file and the :file:`overlay_nrf7002ek_wifi_no_lte.conf`overlay for additional details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the :file:`src/prj.conf` configuration file and the :file:`overlay_nrf7002ek_wifi_no_lte.conf` overlay for additional details.
```

Configuring Wi-Fi access point credentials
==========================================

This sample uses the :ref:`lib_wifi_credentials` library to manage Wi-Fi credentials.
Before the sample can connect to a Wi-Fi network, you must configure at least one credential set.

Once your device has been flashed with this sample, you can add a credential by connecting to your device's UART interface and then entering the following command:

.. code-block:: console

      wifi_cred add <NetworkSSID> WPA2-PSK <NetworkPassword>

Where ``<NetworkSSID>`` is replaced with the SSID of the Wi-Fi access point you want your device to connect to, and ``<NetworkPassword>`` is its password.
Then either reboot the device or use the ``wifi_cred auto_connect`` command to manually trigger a connection attempt.

From now on, these credentials will automatically be used when the configured network is reachable.

> See the :ref:`Wi-Fi shell sample documentation <wifi_shell_sample_>` for more details on the ``wifi_cred`` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the :ref:`Wi-Fi shell sample documentation <wifi_shell_sample>` for more details on the ``wifi_cred`` command.
```
Breaks doc build.
